Background
The Barcode of Life Data System (BOLD) database has made it possible to classify the taxonomy of numerous animal organisms and to identify new species (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2007).  BOLD utilizes the cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) gene sequence found in all animal mitochondria genomes to classify specie taxonomy. This eliminates the reliance on traditional morphological traits that can lead to misidentification (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2007).  The divergence of the COI gene is tracked making it possible to group species together based on changes in this shared sequence (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2007).  This led to the development of the Barcode Index Notation (BIN) system, where each species identified COI gene sequence can act as a barcode to identify them (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2013).  The BIN system has served as an important advancement in conservation methods.  For instance it can be used to identify a new invasive species through barcode sequencing that is impacting a populations diversity (Hobern, 2021).  

  The BIN system only improves as a classification tool as more barcode sequence data is imported to bold (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2013).  As more COI genes are sequenced, it can help track the divergence of the barcode sequence and make the boundaries of a BIN more clear and generate new BIN’s. (Ratnasingham & Herbert, 2013).   Therefore it is important to have a sufficient amount of sequenced specimens across each BIN, however this not always the case.  This project will explore sampling bias across BIN’s in the phylum Gastrotricha.  This phylum is made up of fresh and marine water invertebrates that are only visible under a microscope (Coulson et al., 2014). Although they are not visible, organisms in this phylum serve an important role in aquatic ecosystems such as feeding on bacteria and micro algae (Todaro et al., 2019).  Having an adequate amount of specimens in each BIN will aid identification of these microscopic organisms where morphological traits are not reliable.  This project will explore sample number differences across BIN’s in this phylum and the possible bias that can be contributing to this such as the sampling distribution across families and species.  Exploring factors that could be contributing to sampling bias can bring awareness to this issue so it can be avoided further. 


Findings and Conclusions 
  After exploring the BIN compositions of the Gastrotricha taxon, it was found there was a very diverse number of specimen sampled among the BINS for this phylum.  Figure 1 shows a distribution of the specimen number across BINS and the frequency each value appears.  Majority of the data fell on the left side of the plot as most BINS have a low sample number.  From there factors such as family, species and country that could be contributing to this unequal sample distribution were explored. To begin the BINS were dominated by the Turbanellidae and Chaetonotidae family, and the BINS with high sample numbers were made entirely of these families with only a few other families represented by small sample numbers.  At the species level, the species Turbanella hyalina and Turbanella cornuta were highly sampled and the most plentiful BINS were made of these species as seen in Figure 2. In comparison the Chaetonotidae family had a greater number of different species represented across BINS but with less samples.  Where as the same few Turbanella species were highly sampled contributing to the uneven specimen number across BINS.  As well the Turbanella samples predominantly came from Europe and specially Germany.   Through this exploration it is evident that there is a sampling bias towards the Turbanellidae family and specifically the 2 indicated species.  Figure 3 shows the sample coverage has yet to reach complete, indicating with increased sampling more species will be found.  This was expected as it was evident it was only select species that were highly sampled, limiting the ability for other COI barcodes to gain data and track sequence divergence.  Through this exploration it was found that expected factors such as bias towards a certain family can alter the distribution of samples across BINS.  

	A possible explanation for the high sampling of the Turbanella hyalina and Turbanella cornuta speicies is that there was previously trouble denoting the two because of their close morphological features, which could have led to the surplus of samples for these species (Kieneke & Nikoukar, 2017).  Another possible reason could be that Turbanella hyalina are marine samples and live in sand grains of beaches, so sampling effort is not as lengthy as it would be to find other species that could be at low depths and underwater (Kieneke & Nikoukar, 2017). However Turbanella hyalina and Turbanella cornuta species both show high intra-specific variation in their genome so it could be beneficial to keep barcoding them and tracking the COI barcodes divergence (Kieneke & Nikoukar, 2017).  This did pose a challenge to this this project because although there was a bias to the sampling of these species, they were apart of more than one BIN uncovering new barcode sequences for the COI gene.  Therefore Turbanella hyalina and Turbanella cornuta  were the majority of the specimen samples but they had overlap of BINs.  To develop this project further it would be interesting to gain data on the type of conditions each species lives in and determine if that also contributes to sampling bias as suspected. As well as map coordinates to fresh and marnie water species and determine if there is a sampling bias that favours species that are located on the coast and more readily accessible.
